# Forecast-SupplyChainAnalysis

I would like you and your partner to serve as consultants and conduct a detailed analysis of the data in order to develop a forecasting model that I can use for forecasting future gas consumption at our home. Please follow these steps:
1. Start by plotting the data and identifying the fact that there is clear seasonality in the consumption of gas. Compute seasonality indices so that you can then work with de-seasonalized data.
2. Start with a flat (locally constant mean) model and use a single exponential smoothing approach to update the mean level. Then try a locally constant linear trend model with double exponential smoothing. For each of these methods use all of the available data. You can use any initialization scheme and any parameter values that you feel are reasonable, but you must justify the logic behind your choices. In order to assess the performance characteristics of the models, simulate each on past data and look at the performance of the forecasts over (say...) the last 6 years.
3. As you might know, utilities in PA are deregulated and thus the price per unit varies a bit from month to month. This year, my average rates have been $10.97 per Mcf of natural gas ($5.99 commodity charge + $3.42 delivery charge + $1.56 capacity charge). In addition, Peoples Gas charges $26.50 in fixed customer charges during each billing cycle. I would like a recommendation on how much I should budget for my gas bills for each of the remaining 2 cycles of 2020, as well as for each of the six billing cycles next year (i.e., 2021). Explain your recommendations.
4. BONUS: I should have my bill for Sep.-Oct. by sometime in early to mid-November – remind me at that time and the 3 forecasts that are closest to the actual usage will receive a bonus of 10 points!
